# UV-monitoring-system
This code was made to complete my final year project
This project describes a new optical system for monitoring solar ultraviolet using Arduino. It measures ultraviolet irradiance and exposure continuously while allowing users to monitor the readings through a phone application. The new system operates with an Arduino MKR1000 Wi-Fi microcontroller as the brain of this system and Arduino IDE as the platform for the system’s coding. The sensors used are CJMCU-GUVA-S12SD and GY-8511 ML8511 to highlight the difference in ultraviolet-B and ultraviolet-A measurement data. Thingspeak is utilized as a cloud storage platform for solar ultraviolet irradiance and exposure that is collected continually while MIT App Inventor acts as a platform for application creation. The coding written involves formulas that turn the output voltage of sensors into ultraviolet irradiance and exposure. The system is calibrated with a commercial ultraviolet meter and a field test was constructed at a chosen location to evaluate its performance. The ultraviolet-A irradiance measurement data sent to Thingspeak has the highest value of  3.558 mW/cm^2  while ultraviolet-A dosage measurement data shows the highest value of 3467.246 mJ/cm^2. The ultraviolet-B irradiance measurement data sent to Thingspeak continuously for 3 hours and 34 minutes has the highest value of data at 0.878 mW/cm^2. Field test at a location with unobstructed sunlight results prove the system successfully records and saved ultraviolet irradiance and exposure data continuously to Thingspeak and transmits them to the phone application. 
